[ADD] MRP: Work order dependencies (#5217)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/manufacturing/management/work_order_dependencies.rst

=======================
Work order dependencies
=======================

.. |BOM| replace:: :abbr:`BoM (Bill of Materials)`

When manufacturing certain products, specific operations may need to be completed before others can
begin. In order to ensure operations are carried out in the correct order, Odoo *Manufacturing*
features a *work order dependencies* setting. Enabling this setting allows for operations on a Bill
of Materials (BoM) to be *blocked* by other operations that should occur first.

Configuration
=============

The *work order dependencies* setting is not enabled by default. To enable it, begin by navigating
to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Configuration --> Settings`. Enable the :guilabel:`Work Orders`

> setting if it is not already active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
setting, if it is not already active.
```

After enabling the :guilabel:`Work Orders` setting, the :guilabel:`Work Order Dependencies` setting
appears below it. Enable :guilabel:`Work Order Dependencies`, then click :guilabel:`Save` to confirm
the changes.

> Add dependencies to a BoM
> =========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add dependencies to BoM
=======================
```
just a tiny bit more concise

Work order dependencies are configured on a product's |BOM|. To do so, navigate to
:menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Products --> Bills of Materials`, then select a |BOM|, or create a
new one by clicking :guilabel:`New`.

.. admonition:: Learn more

   For a complete guide on how to properly configure a new |BOM|, see the documentation on
   :ref:`creating a bill of materials <manufacturing/management/bill-configuration>`.

On the |BOM|, click on the :guilabel:`Miscellaneous` tab, then enable the :guilabel:`Operation

> Dependencies` checkbox. This makes a new :guilabel:`Blocked By` option available in the settings for
> the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies` checkbox. This makes a new :guilabel:`Blocked By` option available in the settings of
the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.
```

.. image:: work_order_dependencies/operation-dependencies.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Operation Dependencies checkbox on the Miscellaneous tab of a BoM.

> Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top right of the tab, click on the tab's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top-right of the tab, click on the tab's
```
adding a hyphen

> Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top right of the tab, click on the tab's
> :guilabel:`settings` button, then enable the :guilabel:`Blocked By` checkbox. This makes a
> :guilabel:`Blocked By` field appear for each operation on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top-right of the tab, click on the tab's
:guilabel:`settings` button, then enable the :guilabel:`Blocked By` checkbox. This makes a
:guilabel:`Blocked By` field appear for each operation on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.
```

> Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top right of the tab, click on the tab's
> :guilabel:`settings` button, then enable the :guilabel:`Blocked By` checkbox. This makes a
> :guilabel:`Blocked By` field appear for each operation on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab. On the top-right of the tab, click on the tab's
:guilabel:`settings` button, then enable the :guilabel:`Blocked By` checkbox. This makes a
:guilabel:`Blocked By` field appear for each operation on the :guilabel:`Operations` tab.
```

.. image:: work_order_dependencies/operations-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The settings for the Operations tab on a BoM.

> In the line of the operation that should be blocked by another operation, click the
> :guilabel:`Blocked By` field, and a :guilabel:`Open: Operations` pop-up window appears. In the
> :guilabel:`Blocked By` drop-down field on the pop-up window, select the operation that must be
> completed before the operation that is blocked.

Reviewer 2: I know what's happening in this paragraph because I'm familiar with how blocked operations work, but it's a little hard to tell which operation is going first. My only idea is using an example, which might not be ideal because we want to make our instructions as general as possible. How about something like:

```suggestion
To block the `Assemble table` operation with the `Cut table legs` operation, for example, click on
the :guilabel:`Blocked By` field for `Assemble table`. Doing so opens the :guilabel:`Open:
Operations` pop-up. In the :guilabel:`Blocked By` drop-down field on the pop-up window, select `Cut
table legs`.
```

Reviewer 2: Just read your line 114, and I really like the way you described "... leading from the blocking operation to the blocked operation". Maybe we can change the wording here to specify "blocking operation" and "blocked operation" instead of the more general "operation.

> be completed before the operation that is blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be completed *before* the operation that is blocked.
```

.. image:: work_order_dependencies/blocked-by.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Blocked By drop-down field for an operation on a BoM.

Finally, save the |BOM| by clicking :guilabel:`Save`.

Plan work orders using dependencies
===================================

Once work order dependencies have been configured on a |BOM|, Odoo *Manufacturing* is able to plan

> when work orders will be scheduled based on their dependencies. To plan the work orders for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when work orders will be scheduled, based on their dependencies. To plan the work orders for a
```

> when work orders will be scheduled, based on their dependencies. To plan the work orders for a
> manufacturing order, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations -->
> Manufacturing Orders`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when work orders are scheduled, based on their dependencies. To plan the work orders for a
manufacturing order, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations -->
Manufacturing Orders`.
```

> Next, select a manufacturing order for a product with work order dependencies set on its BoM, or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, select a manufacturing order for a product with work order dependencies set on its |BOM|, or
```

create a new manufacturing order by clicking :guilabel:`New`. If a new manufacturing order is
created, select a |BOM| configured with work order dependencies from the :guilabel:`Bill of

> Material` drop-down field, then click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Materials` drop-down field, then click :guilabel:`Confirm`.
```

After confirming the manufacturing order, select the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab to view the work

> orders required to complete it. Any work orders that are not blocked by a different work order
> display a `Ready` tag in the :guilabel:`Status` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
orders required to complete it. Any work orders that are *not* blocked by a different work order
display a `Ready` tag in the :guilabel:`Status` section.
```

> Work orders that are blocked by one or more work orders display a `Waiting for another WO` tag
> instead. Once the blocking work order(s) are completed, the tag updates to `Ready`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work orders that are blocked by one (or more) work orders display a `Waiting for another WO` tag
instead. Once the blocking work order(s) is completed, the tag updates to `Ready`.
```

> Work orders that are blocked by one or more work orders display a `Waiting for another WO` tag
> instead. Once the blocking work order(s) are completed, the tag updates to `Ready`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work orders that are blocked by one (or more) work orders display a `Waiting for another WO` tag,
instead. Once the blocking work order(s) are completed, the tag updates to `Ready`.
```

.. image:: work_order_dependencies/work-order-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The status tags for work orders on a manufacturing order.

To schedule the manufacturing order's work orders, click the :guilabel:`Plan` button at the top of
the page. After doing so, the :guilabel:`Scheduled Start Date` field for each work order on the

> :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab auto-fills with the date and time that the work order is scheduled to
> begin. Work orders that are blocked by a different work order are scheduled at the end of the time

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion for brevity (: feel free to ignore if it reads as less clear to u

```suggestion
:guilabel:`Work Orders` tab auto-fills with the scheduled start date and time. Work orders that are blocked by a different work order are scheduled at the end of the time
```

> begin. Work orders that are blocked by a different work order are scheduled at the end of the time
> period specified in the :guilabel:`Expected Duration` field of the work order that precedes it.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for further brevity. Feel free to ignore if this sentence doesn't make as much sense as what you currently have. It's honestly fine as is (:

```suggestion
Blocked work orders
are scheduled after the time period specified in the :guilabel:`Expected Duration` field of the
preceding work order.
```

.. image:: work_order_dependencies/scheduled-start-date.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Scheduled Start Date field for work orders on a manufacturing order.

.. example::
   A manufacturing order is created for Product A. The manufacturing order has two operations: Cut

>    and Assemble. Each operation has an expected duration of 60 minutes and the Assemble operation is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and Assemble. Each operation has an expected duration of 60 minutes, and the Assemble operation is
```

   blocked by the Cut operation.

   The :guilabel:`Plan` button for the manufacturing order is clicked at 1:30 pm, and the Cut
   operation is scheduled to begin immediately. Since the Cut operation has an expected duration of
   60 minutes, the Assemble operation is scheduled to begin at 2:30 pm.

Planning by workcenter
----------------------

To see a visual representation of how work orders are planned, navigate to the :guilabel:`Work
Orders Planning` page by going to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Planning --> Planning by

> Workcenter`. The page shows a timeline of all the work orders scheduled for each operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workcenter`. This page shows a timeline of all the work orders scheduled for each operation.
```
